[Video Link](https://egghead.io/lessons/gatsby-use-component-shadowing-to-override-gatsby-theme-components)

## Summary

In this lesson we learn how to modify theme styles.

## Notes

Gatsby themes provide us with something called "component shadowing" which lets us override or modify theme components.

### ⚡ The folder structure

To do this, we'll first create a `src` folder. Inside of the `src` folder we'll create another folder with your npm username. Then inside of that, a folder with your theme name.

Inside of the folder named after your theme, create a file called `theme.js`.

```
src
  - <npm username>
    - <theme name>
      - theme.js

```

### ⚡ Overriding styles

First we want to get the original theme and import it as `baseTheme`. Then we're going to export a constant called `theme` which will be an object.

We can "spread out" (or copy) the base theme inside of our `theme` object and then override any properties that we need to.

#### src/<npm_username>/<theme_name>/theme.js

```js
import { theme as baseTheme } from '@<npm_username>/<theme_name>'

export const theme = {
  ...baseTheme,
  colors: {
    ...baseTheme.colors,
    primary: 'blue',
  },
}
```

To see our changes, we need to restart the dev server. Once it's back up and running, we should see that the colors on the website have changed.

### ⚡ Overriding components

To override an entire component, create a `components` folder inside of the theme folder. Inside, create a new file with the name of the component that you want to override. In this case, we'll completely override the `Layout` component.

We will export default a functional component and return a fragment with the children.

#### src/<npm_username>/<theme_name>/components/layout.js

```js
import React from 'react'

export default ({ children }) => <>{children}</>
```

Once we stop and restart the development server, we'll see that all of the styles have been stripped away.

If we want to add something extra, we can just add it inside of the fragment tag.

```js
import React from 'react'

export default ({ children }) => (
  <>
    {children}
    <p>We're overriding the layout component!</p>
  </>
)
```

After saving the file, you should see all of your updates on the website.

## Additional Resources

- [Spread Syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax)
